.\" Manual page for ipd_alloc_limit.h
.TH IPD_ALLOC_LIMIT 3 "October 25, 2020" "libipd 2020.3.6" "IPD"
.\"
.SH NAME
.BR alloc_limit_set_no_limit ", "
.BR alloc_limit_set_peak ", "
.BR alloc_limit_set_total
\- simulated out-of-memory errors
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "#include <ipd.h>"
.B "#include <ipd_alloc_limit.h>"
.PP
void
\fBalloc_limit_set_peak\fR( size_t \fIsize\fR );
.PP
void
\fBalloc_limit_set_total\fR( size_t \fIsize\fR );
.PP
void
\fBalloc_limit_set_no_limit\fR( void );
.fi
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The purpose of these functions is to simulate out-of-memory errors,
so that you can test how your code handles them. In particular, these
functions let you place a (temporary) limit on heap allocation, which
will cause
.BR malloc (3)
to return
.I NULL
rather than exceed the limit.
.PP
This API supports setting two kinds of allocation limits:
.IP \(bu
A
.I "peak allocation limit"
caps the total size of the heap, which means that each allocated
object counts against the limit only until it is deallocated.
.IP \(bu
A
.I "total allocation limit"
caps the total number of bytes allocated, which means that
allocations are charged against the limit, but deallocations do not
restore the limit.
.PP
To set a peak allocation limit of
.I n
bytes, call
.BR alloc_limit_set_peak (\fIn\fR);
to set a total allocation limit of
.I n
bytes, call
.BR alloc_limit_set_total (\fIn\fR).
To remove the current allocation limit, if any, and restore
.BR malloc (3)\(aqs
usual behavior, call
.BR alloc_limit_set_no_limit ().
.PP
When an allocation limit is set, it applies only to future allocations.
This means that when you call
.B alloc_limit_set_peak
or
.BR alloc_limit_set_total ,
earlier allocations are forgotten and will not count against
the new allocation limit.
.PP
Note that the accounting required by the above functions happens
only in files where
.B <ipd.h>
is
.BR #include d.
This means that you need
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
.EX
.B "#include <ipd.h>"
.EE
.fi
.in
.PP
in every source file that performs allocation or deallocation
in order to use these functions effectively.
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The functions documented herein are suitable for unit-testing of
individual functions, but not for testing a whole program\(aqs
out-of-memory behavior. For testing a whole program you can set a peak
or total allocation limit at program startup by defining an environment
variable from outside your program.
.PP
In particular, these two environment variables may be defined
in order to set a allocation limit:
.IP \(bu
.I RTIPD_ALLOC_LIMIT_PEAK
\- Sets a peak allocation limit.
.IP \(bu
.I RTIPD_ALLOC_LIMIT_TOTAL
\- Sets a total allocation limit.
.PP
The value of either variable may
be a number to specify the limit in bytes,
or a number followed by the letter
.IR K ,
.IR M ,
or
.I G
to specify the limit in KiB, MiB, or GiB, respectively.
.PP
For example, to run the program
.I ./count
with a peak allocation limit of 500 bytes, you could run
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
.EX
% \fBRTIPD_ALLOC_LIMIT_PEAK=500 ./count\fR
.EE
.fi
.in
.PP
If both of the above environment variables are set then
.I RTIPD_ALLOC_LIMIT_TOTAL
takes precedence.
.\"
.SH BUGS
Limiting peak memory makes deallocation slow.
The treatment of
.BR realloc (3)
is confusing.
And probably several others.
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Jesse Tov <\fIjesse@cs\.northwestern\.edu\fR>
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR calloc (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR realloc (3),
.BR reallocf (3)
.\"
