.\" Manual page for ipd.h
.TH CHECK_COMMAND 3 "October 26, 2020" "libipd 2020.3.6" "IPD"
.\"
.SH NAME
.BR CHECK_COMMAND ", " CHECK_EXEC
\- simple whole-program testing
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <ipd.h>"
.PP
void
.br
\fBCHECK_COMMAND\fR(
        const char * \fIcommand\fR,
.br
        const char * \fIactual_input\fR,
.br
        const char * \fIexpected_output\fR,
.br
        const char * \fIexpected_error\fR,
.br
        int          \fIexpected_exit_code\fR );
.PP
void
.br
\fBCHECK_EXEC\fR(
.br
        const char * \fIargv\fI[]\fR,
.br
        const char * \fIactual_input\fR,
.br
        const char * \fIexpected_output\fR,
.br
        const char * \fIexpected_error\fR,
.br
        int          \fIexpected_exit_code\fR );
.PP
extern const char * \fBANY_OUTPUT\fR;
.PP
extern int          \fBANY_EXIT\fR, \fBANY_EXIT_ERROR\fR;
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These macros are for testing whole programs from outside, rather than
functions within the same program. For unit testing of functions,
see \fBCHECK\fR(3).
.PP
The two macro forms differ only in their first argument, which
determines the program-under-test.
.BR CHECK_COMMAND 's
first argument is a single string contain a shell command, which
will be interpreted by /\fIbin\fR/\fIsh\fR.
.BR CHECK_EXEC 's
first argument is a \fBNULL\fR-terminated array of strings
that specifies the program to run as its \fB0\fRth element,
and also provides
the \fIargv\fR for the new process.
.PP
The second argument, \fIactual_input\fR, provides the
program-under-test's standard input.
.PP
The third and fourth arguments, \fIexpected_output\fR and
\fIexpected_error\fR, specify the output that we want the program to
produce on its standard output and standard error streams,
respectively. For either or both of
these arguments, you can pass the
constant \fIANY_OUTPUT\fR to say that
that any output should be accepted for that stream.
.PP
The fifth argument, \fIexpected_exit_code\fR, specifies the status code
that you expect the program-under-test to exit with. You may provide the
constant \fIANY_EXIT\fR to say that any status code
is okay, or the constant \fIANY_EXIT_ERROR\fR to say that
this check should pass with any non-zero exit code.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
Suppose there is a program named \fIoverlapped\fR in the
current directory that should have the following behavior.
If sent the three lines
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
.EX
.B "0 0 10"
.B "5 0 10"
.B "100 0 10"
.EE
.fi
.in
.PP
to its standard input, then it should print the output
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
.EX
.I overlapped
.I not overlapped
.EE
.fi
.in
.PP
to its standard output, and then exit with status 0. You could verify
this behavior with a check like this:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
.EX
\fBCHECK_COMMAND\fR( "./overlapped",
               "0 0 10\fI\\n\fR5 0 10\fI\\n\fR100 0 10\fI\\n\fR",
               "overlapped\fI\\n\fRnot overlapped\fI\\n\fR",
               "",
               0 );
.EE
.fi
.in
.\"
.SH BUGS
Probably many, but none yet known.
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Jesse Tov <\fIjesse@cs\.northwestern\.edu\fR>
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR CHECK (3),
.BR assert (3),
.BR dup2 (2),
.BR execve (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR waitpid (2)
